WDC crash course (#355)
thewca/wca-documents: edudoc/disciplinary-crash-course.md

Reviewer: There should be another directory on this file path, and the file name converted to snake_case: `edudoc/disciplinary-crash-course/disciplinary_crash_course.md`

Author: I'm not exactly sure what this means :P I will need some clarification

Reviewer: You fixed it in the other PR. In essence I was asking you to create a folder for the document like the others one have. Resolved!

> ## WCA Disciplinary Crash Course

Reviewer: The title of the document should have only one `#`, to indicate the highest level section title.

> # Disciplinary

Reviewer: Since this isn't the title of the document, this should have two hashes: `## Disciplinary`.

On another note, I'm not sure that "Disciplinary" is a great title for this section or document? It's not really descriptive about what this section is about. If it's just an intro, you can get away with not having a section either.

Author: We are still working on some names, that was mostly a place holder :p

I was thinking something to the effect of "Guidelines for handling behavioral issues and cheating".

> The WCA Disciplinary Committee (WDC) is entitled to apply bans and other disciplinary action as a result of violation of the [WCA Code of Conduct](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/documents/Code%20of%20Conduct.pdf), based on the motion [Suspensions and other Sanctions](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/documents/motions/15.2022.1%20-%20Suspensions%20and%20other%20Sanctions.pdf). However, the Committee is not able to handle difficult situations quickly during a competition, especially if communication with multiple involved parties is required. Cooperation with competition Delegates is often necessary. This document [or chapter, or section, or whatever this is going to be] contains a collection of guidelines to instruct new Delegates on how to handle common disciplinary incidents, what disciplinary measures they can take and what they should report to the WDC.

Reviewer: > [or chapter, or section, or whatever this is going to be]

Since it has been determined what this is going to be, this parenthetical should be removed.

> ...on how to handle common disciplinary incidents, what disciplinary measures they can take and what they should report to the WDC.

nit: I like Oxford commas.

> # Disciplinary Log and Banned Competitors

Reviewer: \##

> * A list of banned competitors can be found in the [Disciplinary log}(https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/disciplinary). If a competitor attempts to attend a competition when they are banned from doing so, please contact the WDC.

Reviewer: The `}` should be a `]`.

Also, how should a delegate contact WDC? If they are a delegate, they don't (currently) have access to Slack. The Unofficial WCA Staff Discord is currently unofficial, and until it gets some other level of approval from Board+, it's probably best to not officially endorse it.

Author: We are leaving it intentionally open since situations where people are banned from attending can be more serious. Anytime communication is mentioned in the WCA it almost always refers to email so the delegates should already be aware of that option, but if they have a faster form of communication like the discord server, the contact info of a WDC member, etc. then they are welcome to use those methods as well

Reviewer: Good point. With the Discord and Slack I kinda forgot email existed haha.

> * Depending on the degree of severity and type of violation of the Code of Conduct, the WDC may ban a competitor from competing, or attending competitions. Such a ban will be communicated with local Delegates when it is issued. If a competitor is banned from competing, but not from attending competitions, they are permitted to attend competitions. They may also fulfill the roles of officials at competitions at the discretion of the WCA Delegate.

Reviewer: > the WDC may ban a competitor from competing, or attending competitions.

Can remove the comma.

> They may also fulfill the roles of officials at competitions

Presumably we aren't talking about a banned Delegate performing delegate duties at a competition here, so it may be better to use the word "staff" here.

Author: Since “staff” isn’t a defined term, we have opted to go with the term “officials” since that is what the regulations use.

also, if a delegate gets banned then they are pretty likely to get demoted from their delegate status so that shouldn’t ever be an issue :)

> * The WDC will post reports of particularly noteworthy cases that they have handled, as well as a quarterly digest to highlight smaller cases resolved in the last quarter. These are posted for the purpose of educating the community and WCA staff, as well as transparency. These will be posted in the announcement section on the WCA homepage and the WCA forum; a complete list of these posts and announcements can be found in the [Disciplinary log](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/disciplinary).

Reviewer: I understand what this paragraph is saying but I think it could be written a bit more clearly:

> The WDC will publish reports on remarkable cases they've managed and issue a quarterly digest showcasing smaller resolved cases from the previous quarter. These publications aim to educate the community and WCA staff, promoting transparency. You can find them in the announcement section on the WCA homepage and forum, with a comprehensive list available in the Disciplinary log.

# Handling Behavioral Issues of Competitors at Competitions 

* Delegates should primarily address minor behavioral issues of competitors at competitions themselves using [2j](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/regulations/#2j), [2k](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/regulations/#2k), and [2l](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/regulations/#2l) of the regulations and applicable sub-points.

>   * If Delegates have not first tried to handle minor behavior issues by giving warnings and disqualifying competitors under regulation 2k, then the WDC is much less likely to apply any disciplinary action. We would like Delegates to attempt to handle minor incidents at a local level first before WDC gets involved. However, the WDC would like Delegates to report noteworthy behavioral issues so the WDC can record them. The WDC is always willing to give advice, and take disciplinary action as needed.

Reviewer: > The WDC is always willing to give advice, and take disciplinary action as needed.

Don't need the comma.

> * If any extraordinary cases occur, please describe them in the Delegate report.

Reviewer: Is there a set of guidelines for what constitutes an extraordinary case?

Author: We didn’t define that but hoped that this section would help delegates realize that some behavior is minor and shouldn’t really need WDC involvement, while other behavior should need it. We considered some examples but decided that we could publish as is and look into creating an exhaustive list down the road. Once you get to the disciplinary section of the delegate handbook it would be good to reach out to us about this :)

  * Please be aware the WDC will likely contact you for further information regarding the case.

>   * If an incident is discovered after the competition, this should be added to the Delegate report, or emailed to the Delegate report thread.

Reviewer: > Delegate report thread

Capitalization here is a bit jarring. There's no style guide for how to refer to delegates, but I'd either capitalize both words like (Delegate Report) or none (delegate report).

Author: Other documents and the regulations use double capitals so I will adjust this to reflect that :)

>   # {.page-break-before}

Reviewer: In general we should only use these tags when starting new sections.

Author: If I don’t do this then I believe the rest of the text won’t fit on this page, is there a way to address that?

Reviewer: I guess I'm ok with this in order to avoid orphan bullet points bleeding across page breaks.

>   * If the case contains information of a sensitive or private nature, it is acceptable to exclude these details from the Delegate report. However, it is important that the WDC is contacted directly with these details.

Reviewer: Delegate Report capitalization

* Please contact the WDC (tagging in report or directly):
  * If the conflict cannot be resolved locally.

>   * If you believe that a person should be officially warned by the WDC or banned from competitions.

Reviewer: When should a delegate decide that a person needs to be officially warned?

Author: It’s just supposed to cover anything not covered by the other points. It’s very vague, but we are trying to help delegates realize that the purpose of contacting us is generally to apply disciplinary action or to put someone’s name on our “watch list”

  * If you believe that similar incidents may occur in the future and that it would be beneficial for the WDC to document the incident.
* For extreme situations where competitor safety may be involved, please contact local law enforcement immediately. Once the immediate concerns of safety have been addressed, contact the WDC with all evidence gathered for the WDC to use in their investigation.

> # Theft at Competitions

Reviewer: \##

* The WDC’s preference is for theft (such as stealing puzzles) to be investigated and resolved locally when possible, as the local Delegates can often resolve these cases better than the WDC. The priority for these cases is getting items returned to owners during the competition. The WDC will generally not apply disciplinary action unless a competitor has been caught stealing after a previous warning or all of the following conditions are met:
  * There is definitive proof of the accused person committing theft (such as a witness seeing them steal, CCTV footage, admission of guilt, etc.).
  * The suspect has been contacted and asked to return stolen items.
  * The suspect has been unresponsive/uncooperative and has not returned stolen items.
* If you receive reports that lead you to believe that there has been theft, then do your best to resolve the situation during the competition if possible.

>   * Make an announcement, giving a description of stolen items and advising competitors to give items to an organizer or Delegate if they are found. In past incidents, competitors have returned stolen items after similar announcements.

Reviewer: Until there is proof of theft, perhaps it would be better to refer to the puzzles as "missing" rather than "stolen"? Many people mix-up cubes or grab things that aren't theirs by accident, which is distinct from theft.

  * Ask the venue for security camera footage to identify potential suspects if possible.
* If puzzles were not returned at the competition, but you believe you know who stole them then contact them and ask for the puzzles to be returned. Contact the WDC if the individual is not responsive or is unwilling to return the puzzles.
* Report incidents of theft to the WDC so that we can note down competitors names in case there are repeated cases of theft in the future.

# Handling Behavioral Issues of Spectators at Competitions {.page-break-before}

* Local Delegates should do their best to handle any issues that arise with spectators in a respectful manner, remembering that they are acting as official representatives of the WCA.
* Be aware of venue rules and policies. You may be able to ask an official from the venue or local law enforcement to remove individuals causing problems if needed. 
* Contact local law enforcement immediately if there is extreme behavior that may threaten competitor safety. Once the immediate concerns of safety have been addressed, contact the WDC to report the details of what happened.

# Online Interactions (WCA Forum/Official WCA Platforms)

> * If competitors/parents/others are being impolite or inappropriate in their online interactions related to competitions, then please do your best to respectfully handle the situation (please keep in mind that you are a representative of the WCA). You may reach out to the WDC for advice on how to best handle the situation if the problem persists or you are unsure of how to proceed.

Reviewer: I think it is worth mentioning that the WDC's jurisdiction specifically does not extend outside of WCA-controlled environments before this point is made, as it is not clear up to this point when reading the document for the first time.

> * If you feel a person may engage in disruptive actions or pose a threat to the safety or well-being or anyone during a WCA-sanctioned competition, then please contact the WDC.

Reviewer: This seems out of place in the section titled "Online Interactions", since it specifically lists "during a WCA-sanctioned competition"

Author: Added “based on their online behavior” to clarify this

# Organizers

* Like any other competitors, report any violations of the Code of Conduct to the WDC.
* If an organizer has done something outside of the scope of the Code of Conduct that you feel could be problematic, then it is up to discretion of the Delegate to work with that organizer or not. For example, if an organizer has made racist comments on a non-WCA online forum, then the Delegate can choose to not work with that organizer. 
* Carefully keep track of competition budgets and actual expenditures that take place, documenting expenditures with receipts when possible. If you believe that an organizer or legal entity is retaining leftover money from competitions for personal gain then please contact the WDC.

# WCA Staff Members {.page-break-before}

> * Like any other competitors, report any violations of the Code of Conduct of WCA Staff to the WDC. Be sure to also use ‘CC’ to include the WCA Ethics Committee (WEC) in your email.

Reviewer: It is worth explicitly making the comparison to situations where one would report a staff member to WEC instead of WDC, even if it's technically out of scope of this document. Right now it seems to imply that all staff infractions should go to WDC, unless they are on WDC themselves.

Author: That is correct, if a staff member violates CoC then it should go to the WDC. The WDC will forward it to the WEC if it’s an ethical issue as well

  * Explain to competitors why their actions were wrong, try to explain the importance of fairness, and ask them if they have cheated in similar ways in the past. Explain to them that their actions will be reported to the WDC and that the WDC may contact them. Also explain that if a WDC investigation is started, that honesty will result in the best outcome for the competitor.
* Tag the WDC in the Delegate report about the case. Give a rough outline of the incident for the education of other Delegates, but avoid including any evidence or identifying information in the report such as videos that reveal the identity of competitors or names of competitors accused of cheating.
* Contact the WDC directly with a detailed description of the incident, and any evidence gathered.

# Incidents Outside the Scope of the Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct is limited in scope to WCA Competitions and online on official WCA platforms. As a result, the WDC cannot take any action in response to incidents that happen outside of this scope. If concerning behavior happens outside of this scope, below are some recommendations.

> * Contact authority figures that may be able to resolve the situation, such as parents, school administrators, or moderators of a social media group.

Reviewer: There needs to be a new line before a new set of bullet points, or else they just get added on to the end of the previous sentence. Annoying markdown stuff.

> # {.page-break-before}

Reviewer: Remove this page break

* If the situation is serious enough (e.g. physical threats, bullying, abusive behavior, sexual harassment) then contact local law enforcement.
* If you feel it is necessary, communicate with the individual about their behavior and contact the WDC, keeping in mind that the WDC may not be able to apply sanctions. In your communications make it clear that you are contacting them as a concerned individual and not a representative of the WCA. For example, do not threaten disciplinary action from the WCA, such as removal from competitions.

>   * If harassment/bullying is occurring online, advise the competitor to block the perpetrator(s).

Reviewer: The victim may not always be a competitor, so "competitor" may be better phrased as "target", or something similar.

# Managing Difficult Situations
Competitions can be demanding, difficult situations that can add another level of stress. It is essential to remain professional at all times; this will help your interactions with others to go more smoothly, and allow you to positively represent the WCA. Keep in mind the following points when managing a difficult situation:

> * Remain calm during your interactions, speak slowly, avoid retaliating, avoid shouting, don’t use overly complicated jargon, and be empathetic.

Reviewer: Add a newline above this line.

> avoid retaliating

What does this mean?

> be empathetic

What does this look like in such an interaction?

In general, this bullet point does a lot of telling the delegate _what_ to do, but not _why_ they would do it. I think it would be more educational explaining why their demeanor is important when handling these situations.

> * If you are imposing an unpopular ruling, explain clearly why you are doing it, if the competitor is young, it may be beneficial to involve their parent/guardian. Draw from personal experience, if this has happened to you previously, tell them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are imposing an unpopular ruling, explain clearly why you are doing it. If the competitor is young, it may be beneficial to involve their parent/guardian. Some competitors are easily embarrassed. One way to defuse that tension is to draw from personal experience and let them know that the same situation has happened to you before.
```

On the other hand, is this totally relevant to WDC? It's not really a disciplinary issue, and would fit better in the Handbook.
